Data Structure :
A data structure is a specialized format for organizing and storing data. 
A data structure is a particular way of organizing data in a computer so that it can be used effectively.
The idea is to reduce the space and time complexities of different tasks.
some popular linear data structures:
1. Array
2. Linked List
3. Stack
4. Queue
1.Array:
An array is a collection of items stored at contiguous memory locations. The idea is to store multiple items of the same type together.
This makes it easier to calculate the position of each element by simply adding an offset to a base value.
2. Linked List
One disadvantage of using arrays to store data is that arrays are static structures and therefore cannot be easily extended or 
reduced to fit the data set. Arrays are also expensive to maintain new insertions and deletions.
Each element (we will call it a node) of a list is comprising of two items - the data and a reference to the next node.
The last node has a reference to null. The entry point into a linked list is called the head of the list. 
The head is not a separate node, but the reference to the first node. If the list is empty then the head is a null reference.
A linked list is a dynamic data structure. The number of nodes in a list is not fixed and can grow and shrink on demand. 
Any application which has to deal with an unknown number of objects will need to use a linked list.
One disadvantage of a linked list against an array is that it does not allow direct access to the individual elements.
If you want to access a particular item then you have to start at the head and follow the references.
3. Stack
A stack is an Abstract Data Type (ADT).
Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed.
The order may be LIFO(Last In First Out) or FILO(First In Last Out).
Stack operations may involve inserting the data into the stack and deleting the data from stack. 
A stack is used for the following two primary operations −
push() − Pushing (storing) an element on the stack.
pop() − Removing (accessing) an element from the stack.
4.Queue:
Queue is an abstract data structure, somewhat similar to Stacks. Unlike stacks, a queue is open at both its ends. 
One end is always used to insert data (enqueue) and the other is used to remove data (dequeue). 
Queue follows First-In-First-Out order, i.e., the data item stored first will be accessed first.
The basic operations associated with queues −
enqueue() − add (store) an item to the queue.
dequeue() − remove (access) an item from the queue.


